I'm retiring. Bern.
Right.
You won't be happy
until I'm back in uniform.
What if I make a mistake
that gets you hurt?
It looks like
a 16-year-old girl.
Billie Tsosie just ran away
from Saint Catherine's.
She was seen at the trading
post with a young Navajo guy.
Her cousin. Albert Gorman.
All I know. if she's with
Albert. she's in trouble.
Red House Diner.
Billie's there right now.
Navajo tribal police!
Welcome home.
♪ Who's sorry now
♪ Who's sorry now ♪
Can I get another one of these?
No.
OK.
♪ Whose heart is aching
for breaking ♪
What'd you think.
we'd find him in a day?
It's been three. Billie.
-I'm tired.
-I need to find him.
I don't know where else to look.
God damn it. Billie.
I need to find him.
Y'all OK down here?
We're fine.
♪ Just like I cried ♪
♪ Over you ♪
♪ Right to the end ♪
♪ Just like a friend ♪
I thought you said
you worked in insurance.
I do.
So what do you need
that gun for?
It's none of your
goddamn business what.
Fine.
Go without me. then.
See how that goes.
LA's a dangerous place.
all right?
♪ Now you must pay ♪
The neighborhoods
I got to go to for work.
they're. you know...
you got to watch yourself.
Ever since you got me
out of that school.
all you said is you need
my help finding Leroy.
But I need to know
what's going on.
Look.
here's what I need from you...
all I need from you.
Help me find him.
Leroy and me will go.
That's it.
Maybe I want to go with you.
Maybe you ain't invited.
So you're just going to
send me back to that school?
Bullshit. Albert.
Get up.
Get up now.
Let's go.
Be quiet.
What's happening?
It's going to be all right.
Just... just don't make a sound.
Hello. Albert.
What are you doing here?
Sonny send you?
McNair?
Who?
Please come with me.
Now.
I don't think so.
Can I get you a menu. shug?
No. thanks.
We don't plan to stay.
do we. Albert?
Come with me.
I ain't going anywhere with you.
Yes. you are.
We're going for a drive.
Look. Leroy is not going
to say anything. all right?
-Neither am I.
-It's too late for that.
We'll take whoever's
here with you.
Ain't nobody here with me.
That is not your milkshake.
Albert.
Come on.
Shit.
Go. go!
Drive!
Go. go. go! Go!
Go. go. go!
Oh. Oh. shit.
Drive. Billie. drive!
I'm trying!
Oh. I'm shot.
Sorry. Billie.
Just hold on.
Guy who owned this place.
his name was Lucius.
He and his wife. Gladine.
Met him the first year
on the job.
They called me out here
because a man had a heart
attack in his bathroom.
Lucius was pretty spooked.
He'd never seen
a dead body before.
Kept telling me he was afraid
he was going to get
ghost sickness.
that the dead man's
would get trapped
in his restaurant forever.
haunting him.
Even though he wasn't Diné.
I was spooked too. back then.
And I'd seen bodies before.
but...
I had this badge
for four goddamn years
before I saw my first murder.
Now it just feels like
every day. there's...
It's just hard
having to hold it all.
I'm sorry I'm asking you to.
Register's full.
Lock is still safe.
I got casings for
a .38 and a 9 millimeter.
crossfire starting
at the front entrance
and leading
all the way out here.
Looks like someone
tried to kill Gorman.
but got two innocents instead.
Both Gladine and Lucius took
two rounds. center mass.
There's no way
you could shoot like that
with all those bullets flying
around unless you got training.
So a trained killer showed up
at the Redhouse Diner
in Kayenta to off Gorman.
Maybe he pissed off
the wrong guy in LA.
and they followed him here.
Yeah. well. you don't bust
a girl out of a school
and then bring her to a diner
if you think
someone's after you.
Well. whatever the case.
we've got two problems.
First. we have a known criminal
with at least one gunshot wound
on the run with
a 16-year-old girl.
And two. we got
a possible trained killer
somewhere out there
who. I'm guessing.
wants to finish the job.
I'll go and check the hospitals.
No. Chee can do that.
I want you with me.
Well. it's Chee's case.
He should go with you.
OK.
Do you see this?
Yeah.
Shooter lost a lot
of radiator fluid.
Couldn't have gone too far.
He's run dry.
Lots of places to hide
out here. though.
Yeah. he's not hiding.
He's looking for Gorman.
You doing OK?
That was a bad scene back there.
When you were talking to Bern.
it seemed like you were. uh...
Yeah. I'm...
I'm fine.
It's the job.
Don't track mud in here now.
How's your night been?
Oh. OK.
Nothing special.
Anyone come in here
in the last hour
or so with a busted-up truck?
Hell. that's all we get
is busted-up trucks.
This one would have
been overheating.
The driver would
have been in a hurry.
No. no overheated trucks.
But some lady came in
about half an hour ago
and bought some coolant
and proceeded
to muddy up my floors.
So a woman?
Oh. yeah.
Tall. blonde hair.
pulled back real tight.
She talked kind of funny too.
Funny how?
Like an accent?
No. just funny.
What was this woman driving?
She wasn't.
She hoofed it in here
and hoofed it back out.
I figured she broke
down somewhere.
and she wasn't too friendly.
so I didn't ask.
Which way did she go?
Out.
Thank you.
You can put out an APB
on a tall. blonde woman.
There are not too many
of them out here.
Chee. come in.
Are you there. Chee?
Yeah.
Go for Chee.
Bern checked in.
No Gorman in
Scarborough General or county.
IHS?
She's heading there next.
There was a woman at
the trading post yesterday.
Tall. blonde.
Watched us from the window
when we left.
Are you thinking that she's
the one we're looking for?
In a world where there aren't
too many tall. blonde women.
she just might be.
Grab Bern and start
checking the motels.
I'll take IHS.
The sooner we find them.
the better.
Hi.
Helen. hi.
Joe.
Looking for a
gunshot victim that
might have come through here...
Albert Gorman.
We haven't had any of those.
How about a 16-year-old girl.
Billie Tsosie.
St. Catherine's student?
What'd they do?
They got in some trouble.
I'd appreciate a call
if either of them show.
Of course.
Let me know if anybody
comes asking about them.
specifically
a tall. blonde woman.
What's she got to do with it?
Uh. she might be involved.
How's Emma doing?
Why don't you call her
and ask yourself?
That's a good idea.
Thanks.
She signed a lease
in Los Angeles.
She seems happy.
I'm glad.
Thanks. Helen.
Why did you do that
back at the diner?
Do what?
Joe asked you to go with him.
and you told him to take me.
Well. it's your case.
What were you talking about
outside before I came out?
Nothing.
I'm sorry.
I don't know.
Something just feels weird.
and I can't figure it out.
When Emma left.
he started taking time off.
But he was still him.
These last couple of days.
something's...
I don't know.
Something's going on.
He seems the same to me.
This is OK. right?
Us working together?
Of course.
It's not weird?
It's a little weird.
spending all this time together.
I don't know.
I guess we have
to get used to it.
We gotta go to a hospital.
No! No.
No hospitals.
. then.
Maybe the old woman
who takes care of his goat.
she can get you medicine.
Stay here.
Shit.
Little Joe.
is it sure enough true
we're going to have
bird's nest for dinner
at Jimmy Chang's birthday party?
That's what Adam told us.
I'm not sure
I'm gonna like that.
$10 for the night.
3 for an hour.
I got 6 bucks.
We could get two.
Sorry about that.
Obviously just a joke.
Are y'all looking for a room
or a reason to ruin my night?
We're looking for
a Navajo male. 22.
red two-tone car
with California plates.
And he's traveling with her.
Well. unless you got a warrant.
yeah. it would be
unethical for me to divulge
the personal information
of our esteemed clientele.
Yeah. I don't think you want
us poking around on our own.
She's 16.
Protective
organization composed of
civilized borders going on.
particularly the California gold mine.
Navajo Tribal Police.
Open up.
Open the door!
Just hang on. Albert.
Hey! Hey. wake up.
Wake up!
Albert. wake up!
She's gonna... she's gonna...
What?
She's gonna what?
She's gonna find us.
Shit!
I'll be right back.
Yeah. we're here for our
appointment with Dr. Gilbert.
Oh. honey.
Can I help you?
I... I was visiting
just now.
and something happened.
Oh. [speaking Diné].
Do you need a bathroom?
Please.
I can take you.
You can... you can just
tell me where it is.
You must be busy.
Oh. don't worry about it.
I have plenty of time.
Good morning.
He knows something is going on.
Did you get your coffee yet?
I made it strong.
He thinks you're acting strange.
We should just tell him
and get it over with.
I'll tell him.
When?
When I'm ready.
Joe.
There are lot of pieces
to this. Bern.
I don't want the whole office
knowing I'm leaving yet.
Well. I'm not saying we have
to tell everyone. just Chee.
There is an old Indian proverb.
It's not a secret
if three people know.
Actually. it's Gaelic.
but I stole it.
The longer we wait to tell him.
the more it's going to hurt
when he finds out.
This is a big job
I'm asking you to do. Bern...
long hours. lots of stress.
lots of responsibility.
It's hard on relationships.
I don't know...
Yeah. well. it's harder
if you have to lie.
Look.
as a favor to me. I am asking
you to keep this to yourself
until I am ready to share it.
That's all.
All right?
I'm not asking you to lie.
It feels like you are.
This is the job. Bern.
Navajo Tribal Police.
Be right there.
Thanks.
Yeah?
Billy Tsosie just
showed up at IHS.
That's the car.
Helen say anything about Gorman?
Just Billie.
Said she's been stealing meds.
probably to take back to him.
Shit.
Chee. go around back.
-Yeah.
-Billie!
Billie!
Ah. shit.
Come on. Billie.
She's out the window!
Shit.
Hey!
Billie.
Hey! Let me go.
Hey. hey. hey.
Billie. Billie.
Let me go!
Calm down.
Sorry. Billie.
He's in the car!
He's gonna die!
Albert! Albert!
Stay right there.
What's happening?
I don't know.
-Hey. got it.
-All right.
Shit.
Bigman will be here
in half an hour
with new ignition coil wires.
All right.
When she's finished.
find out if Billie knows
where Gorman is headed.
I'm going to put out an APB.
You know. I've been thinking
about what you said earlier
about how now that
you're back at work.
we're spending
more time together.
Well. I wasn't saying
it was a bad thing.
No. I know.
It's just.
we have to get used to it.
Yeah.
Why don't you move in with me?
I'm serious.
I know I haven't always been...
Well. I heard you that night
down at the border.
I know you need more from me.
I just want to...
I want you to know that I...
How much I care about you.
Sometimes it's hard for me
to say how I feel.
So I want you to know
that I'm in this all the way.
whatever happens.
So you think we should
move in together?
Yeah. I do.
Chee...
I know this is weird.
and you don't have to
answer right now.
But I've been thinking about it.
I think it's a good idea.
She's ready to go.
How you doing?
Did you find him?
Well. we were hoping
that you could help us.
He said she'd find us.
That's why
he didn't want to come.
And now she's after him.
There's still a lot
we don't know. OK?
We have time
to figure it all out.
But right now.
we need to find your cousin.
I told you. I don't know.
Billie. you two are family.
If he was hurt or scared.
where would he go?
Hm?
Check for tracks.
We got a blood trail.
Just us and this car.
Doesn't mean she's not here.
Chee. go around this way.
Got no smoke.
Hole on the north side.
Damn it.
Navajo Tribal Police.
Is anyone in there?
Ashie Begay's traditional.
If Gorman was bleeding out. he
wouldn't let him die in there.
-Maybe it happened too fast.
-Yeah.
Someone's in there.
They ain't moving.
Chee. wait.
It's a death hogan.
It's fine. It's the job.
What do you got. Chee?
It's Gorman.
This is Lieutenant Leaphorn.
Who's this?
You know who it is.
Two rounds at center mass.
point blank range.
-What did Albert want?
-My cousin Leroy.
There's something
I have to tell you.
I decide who's safe
and who's not.
Do you copy?
Joe. please answer me.
Be careful.
I'll have to come for you.